You Can’t argue that the data provided is incredible! Wall St will see this as a home run!
 Can’t wait to see all the bulls rejoicing tomorrow when market opens! 
gonna open at $100!!!!  maybe $200
please shorts/bears at least do some DD before posting.  This is getting embarrassing
FDA conducted the trial!! Since 2011 they have been conducting the trial!! Just stop the mineral oil thing!!
NBC celebrated the news last night!! Everybody should be celebrating the results!! Humanity wins that’s what is important here!!
Investors look for FDA! Not gossip tabloids written by short sellers that are under water !!
 shorts are working really hard to fight a big game changer event!  I know how you feel guys!!
 Stocks rallied Monday afternoon, with the Dow rallying 976 points during the session, as investors bet that the worst of the credit crisis is over, following a series of global initiatives announced over the last few days.
The Dow Jones industrial average (INDU) ended 936 points higher, after having risen as much as 976 points during the session. The advance was the largest ever during a session on a point basis. The point gain was equal to 11.1%, the best one-day percentage gain since Sept. 1932 and the fifth-best ever.
The Standard & Poor's 500 (SPX) index added 104 points, its best one-day point gain ever, equal to 11.6%.That was also the best percentage gain since Sept. 1932 and the fourth-best overall.
The Nasdaq composite (COMP) added almost 195 points, the 10th best day on a point basis. The gain of 11.8% was its second-best ever, after a gain of 14.2% on Jan. 3, 2001, right near the end of the tech bubble.
Stocks were buoyant Monday as investors welcomed a global effort to unfreeze the credit market and get money flowing through the system again. Although stocks reacted positively, credit markets barely budged.
"We had some good news this morning from the Fed and the other central banks, but we were also oversold on an historic level and due for a big bounce," said Ryan Detrick, senior technical strategist at Schaeffer's Investment Research.
Monday's rally increased market value by $1.2 trillion, the largest single-day paper value gain ever according to an advance in the Dow Jones Wilshire 5000, the broadest measure of the stock market. That cut in half the $2.4 trillion in market value the Wilshire lost in the recent 8-session bloodletting.
Last week was the Dow's worst ever, ending a stunning eight-session selloff that seared 2,400 points off the blue-chip indicator. That represented a 22% decline in the Dow, something not seen since at least the '30s.
Detrick said that not only had the Dow fallen for eight straight sessions, but it had also fallen for eight straight weeks.
"We basically saw a crash, and so you're going to see a big bounce off that," he said.
That bounce was predicated by the day's news, with investors breathing a sigh of relief that some specifics were finally released regarding the $700 billion bank bailout.
"But the devil will be in the details, in terms of what we hear tomorrow," said Chris Johnson, CEO at Johnson Research Group. On Tuesday, the Treasury Department is expected to release more specifics on the bailout.
Whether the rally can continue beyond the short-term is unclear, as analysts debate whether the market really put in a bottom on Friday.
Johnson said he's not convinced. He equated Monday's rally to a beach ball that has been pushed further and further under the water, where it builds up so much pressure that when it is finally released, it bounces.
"We saw a lot of desperate selling over the last few weeks and at some point, these stocks start to look attractive," Christopher Colarik, portfolio manager at Glenmede Investment Management.
Previous efforts to get the credit markets moving again had failed to reassure investors, but the latest developments seemed to provide reassurance.
"Seeing that there's going to be more of a global commitment to resolving the financial crisis has given confidence to investors and gotten them to put some money to work," Colarik said.
Movers: Gains were broad based, with all but 3 of the Nasdaq 100 (NDX) gaining and all but 1 of the Dow 30 rising.
The Dow's biggest gainer was General Motors (GM, Fortune 500), which surged 33% after having been hit hard in the recent selloff. GM has reportedly held talks with Chrysler about a possible merger, although analysts say GM would need to raise cash ahead of any potential deal.
Other Dow gainers included Alcoa (AA, Fortune 500), up 22.8%; Chevron (CVX, Fortune 500), up 21%; Microsoft (MSFT, Fortune 500), up 18.6%; and American Express (AXP, Fortune 500), up 18%.
The Dow's lone decliner was General Electric (GE, Fortune 500), which reported weak quarterly earnings late Friday. It was also among the 18 components of the S&P 500 that didn't join the rally.
Other S&P losers included a number of homebuilders and bank sector stocks.
One notable exception in the financial sector was Morgan Stanley (MS, Fortune 500). Morgan gained 87% after it said it had completed plans to sell a 21% stake in itself to Japanese bank Mitsubishi UFJ for $9 billion.
Market breadth was positive. On the New York Stock Exchange, winners topped losers by over 18 to 1 on volume of 1.82 billion shares. On the Nasdaq, advancers beat decliners by over 5 to 1 on volume of 2.67 billion shares.
The latest: On Monday, Neel Kashkari, assistant Treasury Secretary and interim head of the $700 billion bailout program - outlined some of the steps the government will take in the weeks and months ahead. The program includes buying soured mortgage assets from banks and buying stock in a number of financial institutions. (Full story)
Meanwhile, House Democrats are meeting Monday to put together a second economic stimulus package that could be worth $150 billion, although House Republicans are reportedly skeptical, CNN reports.
World leaders met over the weekend to come up with solutions. After an emergency meeting Sunday, 15 European nations agreed to help their troubled banks by adding capital and guaranteeing inter-bank lending. (Full story)
Additionally, the British government said it would pump $63 billion into three of the country's banks.
And the U.S. central bank said it will offer an unlimited amount of dollars to three other central banks in an effort to keep money flowing. (Full story)
The Fed announced an emergency rate cut last week, has pledged to help U.S. companies by buying short-term debt directly from businesses and has made billions available to banks in return for damaged assets.
Credit markets still frozen: The recently announced initiatives made a small dent in the lending freeze Monday, although conditions remained tight.
The three-month Libor, or what banks charge each other to borrow for three months, eased to 4.75% from a 2008 high of 4.82% Friday.
The Libor-OIS spread, a measure of cash scarcity, eased to 3.61% from a record 3.67% Friday, suggesting cash is more available than at the end of last week.
The TED spread, which is the difference between what banks pay to borrow from each other for three months and what the Treasury pays, fell to 4.57% after spiking to an all-time high of 4.65% Friday.
The wider the spread, the more reluctant banks are to lend to each other, rather than from the federal government. When markets are fairly calm, banks charge each other premiums that are not much higher than the U.S. government.
Treasury bond markets are closed Monday for Columbus Day. (Full story)
On Monday, for the first time this October, the Dow Jones industrial average ended the day higher than it began. Nine hundred and thirty-six points higher, to be exact, making for the biggest single-day percentage gain in 75 years.
The surge came as governments and central banks around the world mounted an aggressive, coordinated campaign to unlock the global flow of credit, an effort that investors said they had been waiting for.
Some experts greeted the rally as a turning point in the slow-motion crash that has erased five years worth of value from the stock market in the last few weeks. When Monday began, shares of some blue-chip companies were at their cheapest levels in years.
“The market clearly was getting priced for an Armageddon, a depression, for the end of Western civilization as we know it,” said Edward Yardeni, the investment strategist. “A lot of people realized these were extraordinarily good prices to buy stocks.”
But others warned that the problems at the center of the current crisis, including a global credit squeeze and worsening economic conditions, were far from solved, and could set the stage for more volatility in markets.
Economic Crisis and Market Upheavals
Reeling from the worst week in stocks since 1933, officials announced over the weekend that they would flood the financial system with billions of dollars in liquidity and provide capital for troubled banks, throwing out the traditional financial playbook in favor of a series of moves that officials hoped would get banks lending again.
Relief poured through the markets. The 11.6 percent gain in the broad Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index was that gauge’s best single-day gain since 1939. Stocks in Paris and Frankfurt had their best single-day gains ever, rising more than 11 percent. The Dow Jones industrial average, which closed at 9,387.61, up 11.1 percent, is now back to its level on Thursday. Only four times in its history has the Dow risen more percentage points in a day. Those gains came in 1929, 1931, 1932, and 1933.
But trading volume was lighter than last week, meaning fewer investors jumped in to buy than were selling last week. Portions of the credit markets — which remained locked tight before the weekend — were closed for the Columbus Day holiday, so investors may have had trouble gauging the reaction among banks and big lenders to the new global initiatives. Some analysts said that stock investors held off on their trades to see how the credit markets would react.
“If the credit markets open up tomorrow and you can’t see money flowing where it’s supposed to flow, you imagine that this whole thing reverses itself quite dramatically,” said Randy Cass, chief executive of First Coverage, a firm that collects and analyzes investment advice offered by brokerage firms.
Investors may also be eager to pocket their profits from Monday’s gains, which could send stocks lower when the markets reopen Tuesday.
Early selling gave way to bargain buying
recent resilience in stocks can be attributed to improving trends across the sector
stocks have remained strong
 reported very good numbers recently. Last quarter, global comparable sales rose 4.2%, while lapping 5.6% growth in the year ago quarter. 
 Traffic is also up year-to-date
 has been confirmed by improving numbers. Last quarter, comparable sales rose 4.4%, continuing a multi-quarter uptrend in comparable sales growth. Digital sales rose 48.3%. Restaurant margins expanded at a healthy rate. But traffic was still down year-over-year.
 Going forward, it seems likely that investors could return their focus to the apparent revaluation of equities that helped spark sharp selling last month as Treasury yields rose.
 Positive finish
 Stocks climbed for the second day in a row Wednesday at the end of a brutal month for the global market. Investors applauded strong quarterly results from companies
 Markets in Europe, Asia and the U.S. rallied following better-than-expected results from various companies and continued hiring by U.S. businesses. Many of the biggest gains Wednesday came from technology and internet companies and retailers, 
 Markets in Europe, Asia and the U.S. rallied following better-than-expected results from various companies and continued hiring by U.S. businesses. Many of the biggest gains Wednesday came from technology and internet companies and retailers, 
 All 11 sectors of the S&P 500 jump in to positive territory as stock-market gains accelerate late morning
 The S&P 500 index traded firmly higher, with all 11 of its sectors in the green, late-morning Friday, highlighting a steady climb in equities after a better-than-expected jobs report underlined domestic economic strength.
 U.S. stocks closed solidly higher Friday, helping the three main benchmarks book a second straight session of gains after a read on the labor market came in stronger than expected, supporting the thesis that economic fundamentals remain healthy despite trade-war anxieties.
 Not only was the headline number better than expected, but there were positive revisions for the previous months. Meanwhile, the rate of unemployment went up because of the growing participation rate, while at the same time wage inflation went down a tick. So we have a strengthening economy, with a strengthening labor market, with no runaway inflation. That’s all extremely positive for the equity market.
jumped nearly 20% after it announced positive results
 The most bullish analyst to cover the firm reiterated his optimistic view, although he trimmed his near-term revenue forecast.
 Stocks rise as Wall Street cheers jobs report, shrugs off
 Unemployment, however, rose slightly to 4 percent from 3.8 percent. Wage growth also missed expectations, climbing 2.7 percent on a year-over-year basis. Economists expected growth of 2.8 percent.
 more people coming into the work force,
 U.S. stocks closed solidly higher on Thursday, with major indexes advancing in a broad rally that was led by the technology sector, which enjoyed its best session in more than a month.
 Four analysts upgrades, an outlook upgrade by moody's and now Cramer...It has to take ahold sooner than later!
 It’s simply going to get better and better here. Should be 35 today.
 STRONG BUY
 still in it to win it